[MUSIC]
Now, so far we haven't really talked about
the coordinate system of our vector space,
the coordinates in which
all of our vectors exist.
But it turns out in doing
this thing of projecting,
of taking the dot product, we
are projecting our vector onto one which
we might use as part of a new
definition of the coordinate system.
So in this video we'll look at what
we mean by coordinate systems and
we'll do a few cases of changing from
one coordinate system to another.
So, remember that a vector, like this guy
r here if just an object that takes us
from the origin to some point in space.
Which could be some physical space or
it could be some data space,
like bedrooms and thousands of Euros for
the house or something like that.
What we haven't talked about so
far really is the coordinate system
that we use to describe space.
So we could use a coordinate system
defined by these two vectors here,
I'm going to give them names,
we called them i and j before,
I'm going to give them names e1 and e2.
I'm going to define them to be of unit lengths, so
I'm going to give them a little hat,
meaning they're of unit length, and
I'm going to define them to
be the vectors 1,0, and 0,1.
And if I had more dimension in my space,
I could have e3 hat, e4 hat,
e5 hat, e 1 million hat, whatever.
Here the instruction then is
that r is going to be equal
to doing a vector sum of 2e1 or
3e1 and then some number of e2.
So we'll call it to 3e1
hats plus 4e2 hats.
And so
we'll write it down as a little list 3,4.
So 3,4 here is the instructions
to do 3e1 hats plus 4e2 hats.
If you think about it, my choice of e1
hat and e2 hat here is kind of arbitrary.
It depends entirely on the way
I set up the coordinates.
There's no reason I couldn't have
set up some co ordinate system
at some angle to that, or
you can use vectors to find the axis
that weren't even at 90 degrees to each
other or were of different lengths.
I could still have described r as being
some sum of some vectors I used to define
the space.
So I could have, say,
another set of vectors b
I'll call b1 here in the vector 2,1, and
I could have another vector here,
b2 as the vector -2,4.
And I've defined it in
terms of the coordinates e.
And I could then describe r in terms of
you, you're using, those vectors b1 and b2.
It's just the numbers in
r would be different.
So, we call the vectors we used to
define this space, these guys e or
these guys b, we call them basis vectors.
So the numbers I've used to define r
only have any meaning when I know
about the basis vectors.
So r referred to these
basis vectors e is 3,4.
But r referred to the basis
vectors b also exists.
We just don't know what
the numbers are in there.
So this should be kind of amazing.
r, the vector r, has some existence in a
deep sort of mathematical sense completely
independently of the coordinate system
we use to describe, the numbers in
the list describing r.
r, the vector takes us from there,
from the origin to there still exists,
independently of the numbers used in her.
Which is kind of neat, right?
Sort of fundamentally, sort of idea.
Now, if the new basis vectors, these
guys b are at 90 degrees to each other,
then it turns out the projection
product has a nice application.
We can use the projection or
dot product to find out the numbers for
r in the new basis, b, so long as we
know what the b's are in terms of e.
So here I've described b1 as being 2,1,
as being e1 plus e2 twice e1 plus 1 e2.
And I've described b2 as
being minus 2e1's plus 4e2's.
And if I know b in terms of e,
I'm going to be able to
use the projection product to find
r described in terms of the b's.
But this is a big if, the b1 and
b2 have to be at 90 degrees to each other.
If they're not, we end up being in big
trouble and need matrices to do what's
called a transformation of axes,
from the e to the b set of basis vectors.
We'll look at matrices later, but
this will help us out a lot for now.
Using dot products in this
special case where the new basis
vectors are orthogonal to each other is
computationally a lot faster and easier.
It's just less generic.
But if you can arrange the new axis to be
orthogonal you should because it makes
the computations much faster and
easier to do.
So you can see that if I
project r down onto b1, so
I look down from here and project down
at 90 degrees I get a length here for
scalar product, and that scalar
projection is the shadow of r1 to b1.
And the number of the scalar projection
describes how much of this vector I need.
And the vector projection is
going to actually give me a vector
in the direction of b1 of length
equal to that projection.
Now if I take the vector protection
of r onto b2 going this way, I'm
going to get a vector in the direction of
b2 of length equal to that projection.
And if I do a vector sum of that
vector projection plus this guy's
vector projection, I'll just get r.
So if I can do those two vector
projections, and add up their
vector sum, I'll then have our b being the
numbers in those two vector projections.
And so
I found how to get from r in the e set of
basis vectors to the b
set of basis vectors.
Now how do I check that these two new
basis vectors are at 90 degrees to each
other?
Well, I just take the dot product.
So we said before the dot
product cos theta
was equal to the dot of
two vectors together,
so b1 and b2, divided by their lengths.
So if b1.b2 is 0,
then cosine theta is 0, and
cosine theta is 0 if they're 90 degrees
to each other, if they're orthogonal.
So I don't even need to calculate a thing,
so I just calculate the dot product.
So b1.b2 here, I take 2 times minus 2 and
I add it to 1 times 4, which is,
minus 4 plus 4 which is 0.
So these two vectors are at
90 degrees to each other.
So it's going to be safe
to do the projection.
So having talked through it,
let's now do it numerically.
So if I want to know what r
described in the basis e,
and r is pink right,
if I take r in the basis e,
and I'm going to dot him with b1,
and the vector projection divides
by the length of b1 squared.
So r in e dotted with b1 is going to be 3
times 2 plus 4 times 1, 4 times 1,
divided by the length of b1 squared.
So that's the sum of the squares
of the components of b.
So that's 2 squared plus 1 squared.
So that gives me 6 plus 4 is 10,
divided by 5 which is 2.
So this projection here
is of length 2 times b1.
So that projection there,
that vector is going to be 2 times b1.
So that is in terms of
the original set of vectors e,
r_e.b1 over b1 squared times b1 is 2 times
the vector 2,1, is the vector 4,2.
And I can do then now
this projection onto e2.
So I can do r_e dotted with b2 and
divide by the length of b2 squared,
and r_e.b2 is 3 times minus 2,
plus 4 times 4.
Divided by the length of b2 squared,
which is -2 squared plus 4 squared.
So that's 3 times minus 2 is
minus 6 plus 4 times 4 is 16,
so that's minus 6, plus 16 is 10.
Divided by this length here is 4
squared is 16, 2 squared is 4, so
20, so that's equal to a half.
So this vector projection
here is that guy times b2,
so that's r_e.b2 over the modulus
of b2 squared, that's my half,
times the vector b2, so that's a half
times the vector b2 -2,4.
Now if I add those two together,
4,2 this bit, that vector projection,
plus this vector projection, so
this guy is going to be half b2
plus half -2,4 is -1,2.
If I add those together, I've got 3,4,
which is just my original vector r,
3,4 in the basis e.
So in the basis of b1 and
b2, r_b is going to be 2
one-half, very nice, 2,1/2.
So actually in the basis b,
it's going to be 2,1/2, there.
So r_b is 2 times b1 plus
one-half times b2, very nice.
So I've converted from the e set of basis
vectors to the b set of basis vectors,
which is very neat,
just using a couple of dot products.
So this is really handy,
this is really cool.
We've seen that our vector
describing our data isn't tied
to the axis that we originally
used to describe it at all.
We can redescribe it using some other
axis, some other basis vectors.
So the basis vectors we use to
describe the space of data, and
choosing them carefully to
help us solve our problem,
will be a very important thing in
intermediate algebra, and in general.
And what we've seen is we can
move the numbers in the vector,
we used to describe a data item
from one basis to another.
We can do that change just by taking
the dot or projection product in
the case where the new basis factors
are orthogonal to each other.